create backend folder and frontend folder then inside backend folder create 3 folders(microservices) chat , user , mail 
then go inside ./backend/user folder in that run "npm init -y" then i need "tsconfig.json file" for this u need to install "typescript" globally on your system by running this "npm i -g typescript" after this to create the tsconfig file we need to run "npx tsc -init "  
now tsconfig.json file is created now do some changes in that file , search target and change it from "es2016" to "es2020" and search  "module" change it from "commonjs" to "nodenext" , uncomment the rootdir and keep it as ./src in which u will write the typescript code , uncomment the outdir to "./dist"

now changes in package.json change the type to "module " so that we can write code in es6 style and add script "build" :"tsc"

now install "express , dotenv , mongoose"

now we have to install some devDependencies 

Dev dependencies are packages required only during development, such as testing, linting, type checking, or automatic server restarts. They are not needed for running the application in production and are installed using npm install -D <package>.

"npm i -D @types/express @types/mongoose @types/dotenv nodemon concurrently"

@types/express - TypeScript definitions for Express.
@types/mongoose - TypeScript definitions for Mongoose .
@types/dotenv - Type definitions for dotenv .
nodemon - Automatically restarts the server when code changes.
concurrently - Runs multiple commands at the same time (e.g., frontend + backend together).

Scripts in package.json:

build: "tsc" – Runs the TypeScript Compiler (tsc) to compile all .ts files into .js files (usually inside the dist folder) for execution by Node.js.

start: "node dist/index.js" – Starts the application by running the compiled JavaScript file using the Node.js runtime. This is typically used in production.

dev: "concurrently \"tsc -w\" \"nodemon dist/index.js\"" – Used during development. tsc -w continuously watches TypeScript files and recompiles them on every save, while nodemon watches the compiled JavaScript files and automatically restarts the server whenever changes are detected. concurrently allows both commands to run simultaneously in a single terminal.

ok now inside ./src/index.ts write the code to start the server and execute the command in order first run npm run build or "tsc" which compiles the .ts file and converts it to .js file in dist folder then run npm run dev 

now we will create config folder inside the src folder for database connection 

now for creating the cluster we will visit the mongodb atlas website and create a cluster on that and will get the connection string 

talk about code in model/User.ts

now the otp which will be sent , it will be stored in "redis" and for redis we will use "Upstash" --> "Serverless redis service" 
"Redis is an in-memory NoSQL database used to store temporary, fast-access data."
"Unlike MongoDB, Redis stores data in RAM, so it's extremely fast."

"Upstash is a cloud provider that offers a serverless Redis database."

so go on upstash create redis database and install redis for creating connection

run "npm install redis"
run "npm install -D @types/redis"
and in index.ts connection code of redis is done 

now we will create routes and controllers 
so creates 'routes' folder and "controller" folder inside src folder of user 

so for otp sending we have to use mail service and we have to send message which we will do through message broker ==> "RabbitMQ"
in real life projects which are scalable we cannot keep all the things inside one controller 

"RabbitMQ is a message broker that transfers messages between different applications or microservices."
"Role:
    It acts as a middleman between services so they don't communicate directly."

"Queue

A queue stores messages until they are processed.

Role: Holds messages temporarily.

Producer

The service that sends messages to RabbitMQ.

Role: Creates and sends messages.

Consumer

The service that receives messages from RabbitMQ.

Role: Reads and processes messages.

Message

The data being transferred between services.

Role: Carries information such as OTPs, order details, or email requests."

📦 How the Flow Works:
✅ 1. User hits login API (/login)
A 6-digit OTP is generated.
The OTP is stored in Redis.
Then, we send a message to RabbitMQ (to the send-otp queue), which contains:
{
  "to": "user@example.com",
  "subject": "Your OTP Code",
  "body": "Your OTP is 123456. It is valid for 5 minutes."
}
📤 2. Producer — Publishing to RabbitMQ
Inside the LoginUser controller, we use a function like:
publishToQueue("send-otp", message)

to push the OTP email job to RabbitMQ.

📥 3. Consumer — Worker picks the job
In a separate file (usually consumer.ts), we run a background worker which:
Listens to the send-otp queue.
When a message arrives, it reads the email details and uses nodemailer (or any mail service) to send the email.
After success, it acknowledges the message:
channel.ack(msg)

Why Use RabbitMQ?

✅ Non-blocking: The user doesn't have to wait for the email to be sent — the API responds instantly.

✅ Scalable: We can send thousands of emails by running multiple consumers (workers).

✅ Reliable: If email fails, we can requeue the message and try again.

now we have to run rabbit mq on docker 
so first install docker desktop 
after installation we have to open command prompt and have to run command to run rabbitmq on docker 
"docker run -d \
--hostname rabbitmq-host \
--name rabbitmq-container \
-e RABBITMQ_DEFAULT_USER=admin \
-e RABBITMQ_DEFAULT_PASS=admin123 \
-p 5672:5672 \
-p 15672:15672 \ rabbitmq:3-management"

now the rabbitmq container is downloaded and u can check it on "localhost:15672"
now we have to download "amqlib" - used for connection between nodejs and rabbitmq 
"npm install amqplib"

and download the type version "npm install -D @types/amqplib"
now create file inside config folder "rabbitmq.ts"-- dont know what is written 
now we will use this in mail service copu the tsconfig file from user folder to mail folder 

open new terminal for mail service and use the rabbitmq in that mail service 

now go in the mail folder and run "npm init -y" and run "npm install expres dotenv nodemailer amqplib"
and run "npm install -D @types/nodemailer @types/express @types/dotenv @types/amqplib concurrently"

now we will create index.ts inside the src folder of mail and basic server is created on port 5001 and copied scripts from package.json from user folder's package.json file 
then run "tsc" which will create dist folder inside the mail folder and now run 'npm run dev' which will start the server on port 5001 
now we will create consumer file , inside the src folder create consumer.ts - standard code using nodemailer -smtp servers of google to send mail to the user

now we will create the controller inside the user/src/controllers user.ts to log in the user 
after that we will add that in our routes 

now we will check our api "/api/v1/login post " we are recieving otp on mail with rate limiter working properly 

now we will write inside the controller in user service to "verify user" 
now inside the controller we need to create the jwt token creation function for the user which will be used multiple times so creating new file inside config folder "generateToken" 

now we will create controller for fetching user details/profile but for that we will need the middleware for checking whether the user is authenticated or not and if yes then only he/she can see their profile 
for that creating new folder "middleware" in user microservice and in that new file "isAuth.ts"  

